=head1 ABSTRACT

pgFormatter - PostgreSQL SQL syntax beautifier

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This SQL formatter/beautifier supports keywords from SQL-92, SQL-99,
SQL-2003, SQL-2008, SQL-2011 and PostgreSQL specifics keywords. May works
with any other databases too.

pgFormatter can work as a console program or as a CGI. It will automatically
detect his environment and output as text or as HTML following the context.

Keywords highlighting will only be available in CGI context.

=head2 Terminal/console execution

Usage: pg_format [options] file.sql [...]

	PostgreSQL SQL queries and PL/PGSQL code beautifier.

Arguments:

    file.sql can be a file or use - to send a query using stdin. Use a single
    dot in a line to terminate the stdin input or EOF.

    Returning the SQL formatted to stdout or into a file specified with the
    -o | --output option.

Options:

    -a | --anonymize      : obscure all literals in queries, useful to hide
                            confidential data before formatting.
    -d | --debug          : enable debug mode. Disabled by default.
    -f | --function-case N: Change the case of the reserved keyword. Default is
			    unchanged: 0. Values: 0=>unchanged, 1=>lowercase,
			    2=>uppercase, 3=>capitalize.
    -h | --help           : show this message and exit.
    -m | --maxlength SIZE : maximum length of a query, it will be cut above
			    the given size. Default: no truncate.
    -n | --nocomment      : remove any comment from SQL code.
    -o | --output file    : define the filename for the output. Default: stdout.
    -p | --placeholder re : set regex to find code that must not be changed.
    -s | --spaces size    : change space indent, default 4 spaces.
    -u | --keyword-case N : Change the case of the reserved keyword. Default is
			    uppercase: 2. Values: 0=>unchanged, 1=>lowercase,
			    2=>uppercase, 3=>capitalize.
    -v | --version        : show pg_format version and exit.

Examples:

    cat samples/ex1.sql | /usr/local/bin/pg_format -
    /usr/local/bin/pg_format -n samples/ex1.sql
    /usr/local/bin/pg_format -f 2 -n samples/ex1.sql -o result.sql

=head2 CGI context

Install pg_format into your cgi-bin folder, grant execution on it as a CGI
script (maybe you should add the .cgi extension) and get it from your favorite
browser.

You have a live example without limitation than ten thousand characters in
your SQL query here:

	http://sqlformat.darold.net/

pg_format will automatically detected that it is running in a CGI environment
and will output all html code needed to run an online code formatter site.
There's nothing more to do.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Download the tarball from github and unpack the archive as follow:

	tar xzf pgFormatter-x.x.tar.gz
	cd pgFormatter-x.x/
	perl Makefile.PL
	make && sudo make install

This will copy the Perl script pg_format in /usr/local/bin/pg_format directory
by default and the man page into /usr/local/share/man/man1/pg_format.1. Those are
the default installation directory for 'site' install.

If you want to install all under /usr/ location, use INSTALLDIRS='perl' as argument
of Makefile.PL. The script will be installed into /usr/bin/pg_format and the
manpage into /usr/share/man/man1/pg_format.1.

For example, to install everything just like Debian does, proceed as follow:

	perl Makefile.PL INSTALLDIRS=vendor

By default INSTALLDIRS is set to site.

=head1 HINTS

=head2 Formatting from VI

With pgFormat, you can just add the following line to your ~/.vimrc file:

	au FileType sql setl formatprg=/usr/local/bin/pg_format\ -

This lets your gq commands use pgFormat automagically. For example if you
are on the first line, typing:

	ESC+gq+G

will format the entire file.

	ESC+gq+2j

will format the next two line.

Thanks to David Fetter for the hint.

=head2 Prevent replacing code snippets

Using -p or --placeholder command line option it is possible to keep code
untouched by pgFormatter in your SQL queries. For example, in query like:

	SELECT * FROM projects WHERE projectnumber
		IN <<internalprojects>> AND username = <<loginname>>;

you may want pgFormatter to not interpret << and >> as bit-shift keywords
and modify your code snippsets. You can use a Perl regular expression to
instruct pgFormatter to keep some part of the query untouched. For example:

	pg_format samples/ex9.sql -p '<<(?:.*)?>>'

will not format the bit-shift like operators.

=head1 AUTHORS

pgFormatter is an original work from Gilles Darold

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012-2016 Gilles Darold. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

pgFormatter is free software distributed under the PostgreSQL Licence.

A modified version of the SQL::Beautify Perl Module is embedded in pgFormatter
with copyright (C) 2009 by Jonas Kramer and is published under the terms of
the Artistic License 2.0.

